
There are two extensively studied models that explore continuous opinion
dynamics under bounded confidence, the Deffuant-Weisbuch (DW) model (Deffuant
et al. 2000) and the Hegselmann-Krause (HK) model (Hegselmann and Krause
2002). 

The DW and HK models are very similar in their use of bounded confidence on a
continuous opinion scale. Differences arise in how an agent aggregates the
opinions around them for consideration in their own opinion shift. With the DW
model, agents aggregate opinions through pairwise evaluations, slightly
shifting an agentâ€™s opinion after looping through all possible pairings within
the population. In the HK model, an agent aggregates all other agent opinions
within their confidence bound and considers the group average for shifting
their opinion (Lorenz 2007)

The HK model is described in Fu, Zhang, and Li (2015).

One of the research conclusions by Fu, Zhang, and Li (2015) through the use of
their MHK model was that closed-minded agents dominated the formation of
opinion consensus. This was supported by simulation results that indicated as
the proportion of closed-minded agents in the population increased (with the
difference being open-minded), so did the number of final opinion clusters
after reaching a period of steady state.


Deffuant, G., D. Neau, F. Amblard, and G. Weisbuch. 2000. "Mixing Beliefs
among Interacting Agents." _Advances in Complex Systems_ 3:87-98. doi: 10.1142/S0219525900000078

Fu, G., W. Zhang, and Z. Li. 2015. "Opinion Dynamics of Modified Hegselmann -
Krause Model in a Group-Based Population with Heterogeneous Bounded
Confidence." Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications
419:558-565. doi:10.1016/j.physa.2014.10.045

Hegselmann, R., and U. Krause.  2002. "Opinion Dynamics and Bounded
Confidence Models, Analysis, and Simulation." _Journal of Artificial Societies
and Social Simulation_ 5. http://jasss.soc.surrey.ac.uk/5/3/2/2.pdf

Lorenz, J. 2007. "Continuous Opinion Dynamics under Bounded Confidence: A
Survey." International Journal of Modern Physics C 18:1819-1838.
doi:10.1142/S0129183107011789 .
